# reddit
Reddit behavior of contributors 
Purpose of the projects: discover the differences in contributor behavior between two subreddits (r/emacs & r/vix)

Implementation details: The project is implemented with python 3 in jupyter environment and for the visualization, the combination of excel and tableau have been used. 
Steps of the project: 1- data scraping,  2- data pre-processing, 3- visualization

1-	Data scraping: to capture data from the Reddit website the best strategy is to create an API. there are two well-known API are available for the Reddit website ‘pushshift’ and ‘praw’ . for this experiment, the praw has been selected. It should first installed by pip command and then imported into the jupyter and filled with your credentials . in this project the data from 10 January 2020 to 09 December 2020  has been captured. The captured data is the JSON format therefore for a better understanding of data it is more convenient to turn JSON format into the dictionary python-format and turn this dictionary into the panda framework dataset format and finally turn this dataset to the CSV format by the panda library. In our CSV dataset format, The title of the posts is considered as our rows of the table and The metrics or features (columns) of the datasets are  ‘Id’,’ Author’,’ Url’,’ Score’,’comments_number’, ‘Created’ and ’Award’. If you execute the reddit_emacs_capture  and reddit_vix_capture jupyter files you will have two separate CSV files with the name of df_emacs.csv and df_vim.csv on the Reddit folder in the c drive.  Just remember to fill your own credential in your blank space.

2-	data pre-processing: the first step is to read the CSV files that we have created in the previous step. our goal is to create clean data for the visualization. we practically do four processes in here. the first process is to check the null value and try to fix that by removing or put the average value to them, fortunately, our posts are clean and no null values are observed, second process is to manipulate the URL metric to obtain the root of the URL (domain with suffix) .we will do this process to find out the post is originated from the Reddit subset or it is from external sources. We will perform this process by creating a function and TLD library .the output of the function is a clean URL with a proper domain. The third process is to convert the Unix time to the readable human time with the panda data time library. the fourth process is to change the score, comment_number, and award columns from object to numeric format. this is vital for the visualization because functions such as average or count require numeric data to handle the process. After performing these processes we create two clean datasets called ‘clean_df_vim.csv’ and ‘clean_df_emacs’ in the same folder Reddit in the c drive.

  
3-	Visualization: having a clean dataset is a necessity for this section which we did in the previous step.  For this step, two famous software (Tableau and Excel ) have been selected. I have done five experiments and I will briefly explain the outcome. First the average reward in three months. The plot displays that in October the emacs subreddit acquire more rewards than the vim however in November the vim precede the emacs and in December with minor differences, emacs took more rewards for the posts. The second plot is the average score (vote) in three months. according to this plot, the vim precedes the emacs in all three months which could indicate that posts are more interesting to users. the third plot is the sum of comments for the three months .according to this plot in October people post more comments on emacs however in November the vim precedes and in December the emacs again had more comments .which could indicate that in November vim had more challenging posts but In October and December, the emacs had more challenging posts. the fourth plot is the sum of posts in three months, according to this plot emacs precedes in all three months which could indicate that this subreddit was more active than the vim. 
The two last experiments are a bit different. The first one is trying to understand that the posts are in the subreddits originated from which sources. According to the “post source plot,” the posts mostly originated inside the Reddit domain (from the other subreddits) for both vim and emacs. The second source for both is Github. 
The last experiment is the average number of votes for awards. in this experiment, we grouped the posts based on the received number of awards and took the average score (vote) for each category .we try to understand that for instance the posts that received one award how many votes they had on average for both subreddit. The plot outcome indicates that the posts with one award and two awards, the vim reached more votes than emacs.  

The visualization outcome does not limit to these plots. there are more analyses we can try to obtain a more accurate estimation of the distribution of data in vim and emacs subreddits.  
